About the job

**Position Title:** Software Quality Engineer

**Company:** Microsoft (Xbox Game Studios)

**Location:** Redmond, WA (Hybrid)

**Salary:** $100.6K/yr - $215.4K/yr

**Job Type:** Full-time

**Posted:** 6 days ago

**Application Deadline:** October 27th, 2025

---

Xbox Game Studios is looking for a Software Quality Engineer that is passionate, systems thinking, customer centric, experienced individual to make an impact on AAA+ titles. You're a people first, proactive long-term thinker, who strives to make continuous improvements across people, processes, technologies and foster a quality mindset for the team and studio partners.

You'll be a critical team member executing daily to improve process efficiency and better detect, measure, and prevent issues/bugs from making it into the game titles you support. In this role, you will communicate the state of quality, and any risks, back to the product owners for both released titles and titles currently in active development. At the core you'll be responsible for owning and iterating the comprehensive quality strategy for your features and working closely with quality, development, and production partners to enhance the overall product quality. You'll leverage data and risk analysis to course correct and help guide the team's direction, using information generated by players, monitoring historical trends for insight, and guide the team and our technology to create the right impact at the right time.

As a member of the greater Studios Quality team, you will also be part of a larger community of Quality Engineers, Software Engineers, and Data Scientists focused on providing cutting-edge quality solutions for world-class products across Xbox Game Studios.

Microsoft's mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond.

## Responsibilities

- Drive the "end to end" quality and test strategy for multiple large, complex features within a title that releases quickly and regularly.
- Collaborate with software and data engineers to design, create, and leverage data insight, existing automation, and tooling solutions to accelerate the team's ability to achieve test coverage and provide insight on product quality and functionality.
- Develop manual test approaches for owned features where necessary, and partner with offsite test teams to collaborate on execution.
- Take successes and failures and proactively share them with the broader Studios Quality organization, driving up the capabilities of the larger team.
- Build quality, lasting relationships across disciplines and organizational boundaries.
- Help build and foster a Quality first mindset.
- Embody our Culture & Values

## Qualifications

### Required Qualifications:

- Master's Degree in Engineering, Computer Science, or related field AND 2+ years software industry experience OR Bachelor's Degree in Engineering, Computer Science, or related field AND 4+ years software industry experience
  - OR equivalent experience.
- 2 years experience in game development.
- 2 years experience using data, automation, and telemetry systems to inform and generate discussions and make decisions and evaluations regarding product quality.

### Preferred Qualifications

- Comfortable debugging code and using automation technologies.
- Any combination of data centric tools, e.g. Kusto, PowerBI, Azure Data Bricks, SQL, Synapse.
- Multiplatform release experience, GAAS.
- Interpersonal skills and excellent written and oral communication capabilities, able to work across time zones, regions, cultures, disciplines, and personalities.
- Takes initiative, is self-directed, and drives issues to conclusion.
- An open mindset and strives for win-win outcomes.
- Experience contributing as an engineer on a quality team through multiple ship cycles, preferably in games or entertainment.
- History of leveraging and implementing technological solutions that increase the team's ability to impact.
- Established track record of representing and pushing for the player and your customers, both internal and external customers.

## Compensation

**Software Quality Engineering IC3** - The typical base pay range for this role across the U.S. is USD $100,600 - $199,000 per year. There is a different range applicable to specific work locations, within the San Francisco Bay area and New York City metropolitan area, and the base pay range for this role in those locations is USD $131,400 - $215,400 per year.

Certain roles may be eligible for benefits and other compensation.

**#GamingJobs**

*Microsoft is an equal opportunity employer. Consistent with applicable law, all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, ancestry, citizenship, color, family or medical care leave, gender identity or expression, genetic information, immigration status, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or mental disability, political affiliation, protected veteran or military status, race, ethnicity, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected by applicable local laws, regulations and ordinances.*

